---
layout: post
date: 2016-03-16 01:24:35 -0700
title: questions1
---

Recent days knows a lot of interview questions, some of them are interesting.

## Question1
We have `n` houses and `m` colors, to paint house `i` with color `j`, we need pay money `prices[i][j]`. Note adjacent houses cannot use same color to paint. Find the cheapest way to paint the `n` houses with `m` colors.


  DP problem. Suppose P[i][j] represents the min payment paint houses from 0 to i and house i with color j. So

  P[i][j] = min{P[i-1][k]} + prices[i][j],  k=0 to m-1 and k != j

  The final result is min{P[n-1][j]} where j=[0, m-1].

## Question 2
We have `n` houses in a circle and each house has cash `cash[i]`. Suppose theft grab the cash from these houses, he cannot grab the money from adjacent houses. For example, we have 5 houses, possible way is grab house [0, 2], but [0, 2, 4] is not possible, because houses 0 and 4 are adjacent in circle. (DP question)

## Question 3
Binary tree, add next pointer to each node which points to the adjacent right node. For example:


                          a
                    b           c
                 d     e     #     f  

\# means empty node. So we have to make b.next points to c, d.next points to e, e.next points to f.

Solution: BFS can solve it. Also we can use recursive without extra space.

## Question 4
Reverse linked list since start position to end position, like function reverse(Node head, int start, int end).

## Question 5
Binary Tree rotate 90 degree in clockwise, suppose right node is empty or leaf node.

example 1:

                      a                              b
                  b       c          =>          c       a

example 2:

                      a                              f
                  b        c        =>                   d
              d       e                               e      b
          f                                              c       a

## Question 6
How to design twitter/linkedin home page?

You have to know browser event model, capture/target/bubble phases, to optimize the event handler on duplicate items like multiple twitter messages. Know some basic css layout, like float, clearfix.

## Question 7
How to design system to mrege all profiles from different social platform, like twitter, facebook, netflix, amazon.

This is design question for client and server, so you have to get detail requirements form interviewer, then make it happen step by step. Server gets all profiles from different providers and merge them together then send to client. Client display it and allow user to edit it.

## Question 8
Implement JS function bind method, see more from [mdn Function.bind](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function/bind).

This is very helpful to understand "this" in js. For Function.prototype.bind, this means function itself.

## Question 9
A circle diameter is 1.0, a square size is 1.0 too. Check if this circle and square have overlap.

## Question 10
Suppose we can encode '1' to 'a', '2' to 'b', '26' to 'z'. Output how many ways to encode input digit strings. For example,

1 => 'a', so output is 1.
1234 => 'abcd', 'awd', 'lcd', so output is 3.

## Question 11
Implement event manager, which has addEventListener, removeEventListener, dispatchEvent functions.

## Question 12
Check if two trees are same.

```JavaScript

  // suppose Node type like {value: number, left: Node, right: Node}
  function isSameTree(root1, root2) {
    if (root1 === root2) return true;
    if (!root1 || !root2) return false;
    if (root1.value !== root2.value) return false;
    return isSameTree(root1.left, root2.left) && isSameTree(root1.right, root2.right);
  }

```

## Question 13
A 2-dimension matrix with value 0 or 1, 0 means you can pass, 1 is blocked. Now from top left to bottom right, output the total paths. Note: you can only move right or bottom for each step.

## Question 14
An integer array, check if possible to find two values sum as target integer. For example, [1, 3, -2, 5] and target number 6, return true, because we have {1, 5}, but for target number 10 we return false.

Further question, how to find 4 numbers which sum is target number.

## Question 15
An integer array, check if possible to find continues sub array whose sum is target number. For example, [1, 2, -1, 4] and target number 5, we can find [2, -1, 4], so return true; but for target 7, return false.

## Question 16
An 2-dimension array filled with letters, we can suppose they are just from 'a' to 'z'. Each item in this matrix, it connects to four adjacent elements. Given a word, try to check if it's possible to find target word. For example, given below matrix and word 'dad', return true, because we can find 'dad' on the second row; given word 'dab', return true, because we can find 'da' on the second row, then up to 'b'; given word 'ca', return false.

    a    b    c
    d    a    d
